# Title: From Zero to Reproducing Kernel Hilbert Spaces in Twelve Pages or Less

# Author: Hal Daumé (2004)

#### General Content: 

* Mathematical summary/brushup of concepts relevant to understanding RKHS.

* General Structure of Paper:

	1. Fields: Ordered Fields, Complete Ordered Fields, Isomorphisms
	2. Vector Spaces
	3. Banach Spaces: Complete Vector Spaces, Norms, Infinite Sequences and Norms on Function Spaces
	4. Hilbert Spaces
	5. RKHS  

#### Summary:

* Fields 
	* allow us to solve linear equations on them
	* < F, +, ., 0, 1 > - F: Universe, +: addition op., .: multiplication op., 0: identity addition, 1: identity multiplication, $(.)^{-1}$: inverse operation for multiplication.
	* Associative, Commutative, Distributive, Identity, Invers

* Ordered Fields
	* Field equipped with binary relation (<=) that is a linear order
	* Reflexive, Antisymmetric, Transitive, Interaction of operations and ordering

* Complete Ordered Fields
	* Non-formal: Space is complete if every sequence of its elements that approaches a particular value has this value as it's limit and this limit lies in space itself
	* Formal: X is a complete space if every Cauchy sequence in X is convergent.
	* Need definitions for distance, Cauchy sequence, and convergent sequence

* Isomorphisms		
	*  Non-formal: mapping between two objects that preserves all the relevant properties of those objects.
	*  Formal: Mapping that is injective (one-to-one), surjective (onto) and preserves operations/obeys structure of field.

* Vector spaces: Space that contains elements called vectors and supports addition of vectors and multiplication by scalars.

* Banach spaces: Complete vector space endowed with a norm/method of calculating the size of vectors in the space.
	* Complete vector space: Definition as before but replace distance by norm
	* Norms: Defined by properties - non-negative, strictly positive, homogenous, triangle inequality

* Infinite sequences: Can also form Banach spaces. In order to ensure completeness, need to make sure that sequences don't diverge under summing.

Space and Norm Definition:
$$l_p = \{<x_i>^\infty_{i=0}: \sum_{i=0}^\infty |x_i|^p < \infty\}$$
$$||<x_i>^\infty_{i=0}||_{l_p} = \left(\sum_{i=0}^\infty |x_i|^p\right)^{\frac{1}{p}}$$

* Norms on Function Spaces: Use sup-norm for continuous functions from X to R.

Space and Norm Definition:
$$L_p = \{(f: \mathcal{R}^n \to \mathcal{R}): \int_{- \infty}^\infty |f^p(x)| dx < \infty \}$$

$$||f||_{L_p} = \left(\int_{- \infty}^\infty |f^p(x)| dx \right)^{\frac{1}{p}}$$

* Hilbert Spaces: Banach space further endowed with a dot-product operation. Dot-product operation has to satisfy associativity, commutative and distributive property

* RKHS: Hilbert space, which requires that all Dirac eval functionals in $\mathcal{H}$ are bounded and continues (but one implies other)

	* Riesz Representation Theorem: If $\phi$ is a bounded linear functional (e.g. Dirac eval functionals) on a Hilbert space, then there is a unique vector $u$ in $\mathcal{H}$ such that $\phi f = <f,u>_{\mathcal{H}}$ for all $f \in \mathcal{H}$.
	* Apply to Dirac eval functionals: For each functional, there is a unique vector $k_x$ in $\mathcal{H}$ such that $\delta_x f = f(x) = <f, k_x>_\mathcal{H}$

* Reproducing Kernel for $\mathcal{H}$: $K(x ,x') = <k_x, k_{x'}>_\mathcal{H}$
	* Reproducing property: $<f, K(x, x')>_\mathcal{H} = f(x')$
	* $k_x$ is defined to be a function $y \mapsto K(x,y)$ and thus $<K(x,.) K(y,.)>_\mathcal{H} = K(x,y)$
	* Positive definiteness: All reproducing kernels are positive. Matrix filled by $K(x_i, x_j)$ is positive definite. 
	
	
#### Keypoints: 

* Any positive definite function is a reproducing kernel for *some* RKHS, $\mathcal{H}_K$.
	* $\mathcal{H}_K$ is unique up to isomorphism.
	* Construction via defining dot product via linear combinations of kernel function.
* Force space to be complete by manually adding the limits of all Cauchy sequences!
* Finite trace property of mapping $K(x, x')$: K is continuous and does not diverge!
* Eigenfunction for function-space: Equivalent to eigenvector for vector space.

$$ \int K(x, x') \phi(x') dx' = \lambda \phi(x')$$

* Mercer-Hilbert-Schmitt Theorems: If K is a positive definite kernel (continuous with finite trace), then there exists an infinite sequence of eigenfunctions $< phi_i >_{i=0}^\infty$ and ordered (decreasing) eigenvalues $\lambda_i$, and that we can write K in analogous form to the spectral decomposition:

$$K(x, x') = \sum_{i=0}^\infty \lambda_i \phi_i (x) \phi_i (x')$$ 

* Feature Space Construction: Can't only construct $\mathcal{H}_K$, but also find a feature function $\Phi: X \to  \mathcal{H}_K$ s.t.: $$K(x, x') = <\Phi(x), \Phi(x')>_\mathcal{H}$$
	* Given a symmetric p.d. fct. K, there exists a function $\Phi$ s.t. the evaluation of the kernel at points x and x' is equivalent to taking the dot product between $\Phi(x)$ a $\Phi(x')$ in some perhaps unknown Hilbert Space.
	* $\Phi$: Maps inut space to large and possibly infinite feature space $\mathcal{H}$, where we can still easily compute the Kernel product K instead of the dot product - **KERNEL TRICK**
	* Two common constructions: 
		* $\Phi(x) = K(x,.)$
		* $\Phi(x) = <\sqrt{\lambda_i} \phi_i(x)>_{i=0}^\infty$
		
		 
#### Questions: 

* How is the dot product defined in 6.4.2 - Fourier analysis??
* And how is this related to finding a basis in $\mathcal{R}^n$?
* In practice: what does theory give/tell us? Only existence or even more? - Know how to explicity construct the space $\mathcal{H}$, which is unique up to isomorphisms - $\Phi$ is also only semi-unique